We've covered ordered lists, we've covered
unordered lists, we've covered a bunch of
different kinds of selectors, the ones
who are familiar with grouping selectors,
descendant selectors,
attribute selectors, all the ins child's.
And that sort of brings
us up to a baseline here.
Those are tend to be the things that
people work with a lot inside of html and
css going forward.
Now we get into some interesting wild and
crazy stuff that we can
also do with semantic html and
with different kinds of styling.
So the next thing we're going to
explore are our description lists.
You may also know these
as definition lists.
That's what they used to be called,
definition lists.
Now they're called description lists cuz
they're not just for definitions anymore.
So we're here and chapter two,
we're at part three.
And there's a link here
to this demo code pen.
So if you wanna open that up,
this is just gonna go through how we would
go about marking up a description list.
So I've got my html up over
here on the left hand side.
So the way you started to description list
is with the dl tag for description list,
and of course you ended with slash dl,
as you probably could guess.
But since this is the list that is for
key value pairs,
there are two list items that
wind up here in the list.
So dt is for the term dd is for
the description.
So dt is the key, dd is the description,
and those terms and
descriptions can be organized as follows.
So over here in the display side you can
see we can have a one to one relationship,
one dt, one dd.
We could have a one to many
relationship one dt, many dd.
You can also have a many
to one relationship,
many different dts with one dd or we can
have many to many, many dts to many dds.
All of those are all absolutely
legal in a description list.
So, here I have talked about various
types of fruits and vegetables and
we are just pairing them up here so
that we have all four of those
types of key value pair possibilities
are all represented there.
Now so that is just the raw styling for
that particular kind of list.
One of the things that would make
this more useful is if we could group
these elements, right, so
that we can do interesting layouts and
we are limited in what we
can do in that regard.
One of the things that is
legal is to use the div
element to group each
set of key value pairs.
You can't just group put that div anywhere
you want in the description list.
You have to put it around
the relevant key value pairs.
So we have in this case of course
fruit and Apple those go together.
That's an additive,
vegetables which are broccoli spinach and
squash that goes inside of a div and
so forth.
So those are all we can do
here in terms of our html and
putting together this kind of list.
In terms of the kinds of content because
you're probably not making lists so
what fruits and vegetables.
Anybody have any suggestions for
what kinds of content,
might go together well
with a key value pair.
>> That some types of pets are.
>> Yeah, so a category and
members of that category, right?
So we can talk about dogs, we can talk
about breeds of dogs, breeds tats,
we have breeds of cats, right?
What else?
How about frequently asked questions,
where we have a series of questions,
right, and then answers that go with
those, that would be something like that.
So any type of those things where you
have a relationship between two items,
and you wanna be sure that
relationship is represented,
this is a great way to do it, okay.
And we'll do more with description lists
as we go on because it's one of my
favorite things of html.
Any questions about a description list and
how its marked up?
>> Is it valid to use only a dt and
no dds corresponding to it?
>> I am not sure of the answer to that.
I believe the answer to that is no that
you can't have just a dt with no dd.
But I'm not entirely sure on that I would
refer you to MDN to double check that.
>> I was kind of curious about the nature
of it since we kind of have implied
groups that are highlighted with these
divs that we have our dts and dds father.
If I thought about the example that that
question laid out, it just seems like
well, then your dt would be associated
with ever dd is beneath it.
>> Yes.
>> Unless they suggested it was an empty
list, just one dt,
which would not be much of a list.
>> I think that's the second
one is what their question,
that's what I was referring to.
Yeah, it's really targeted
at key value pair.
So one, one possible approach would
be to just put in a dd with no value
that might be one possible answer.
Other questions?
>> Only the dl is required and
then one element inside of it.
>> Okay.
>> So dt or dd.
>> Well we can always
take a look at mdn dl.
So let's see what it does mdn tells us.
It doesn't necessarily say
here on this page either,
I'm not gonna spend a huge amount
of time reading documentation.
So that is how a description list works.
Let's do a little bit of coding for that.
So if you wanna take a look at your
beginning code pen in part four,
this is chapter two, part four we
have layouts with description lists,
and this is where it gets super fun.
So let's take a look at those layouts.
By the way, questions that came up over
the break, and I am remiss in mentioning
it if you're not accustomed to using code
pen, feel free to make a code pen account.
There's a button up here in the corner.
If you're logged in,
you'll see these settings.
If you're not logged in,
you can make an account, and
then down at the bottom of the page there
is a button to fork these ,so you can fork
them to your account and save your
work if that is of interest to you.
Obviously you can just code right here in
the screen if you're not wanting to save
your work.
All right, so
let's look at these description lists and
let's talk about interesting
ways to name them out.
So what I'm starting with
here is I have a portion of
that list that we just talked about.
So right now I just have a series
of one to one relationships
between the dt and the dd.
What might be one thing that I
could do to start to lay these out?
Anybody have any ideas?
>> Give a border to the dts.
>> We could give them a border,
absolutely.
Might we wanna put these things side
by side, maybe a column of information,
that would be kind of a fun thing to do.
All right, so
let's say that we're going to have a div,
we're gonna put a div
around our fruit apple and
we'll put another div around
our vegetables broccoli.
Slash div and clean that up.
Okay, so
now what I have is I have divs that
are grouping together those dd and dt.
So anytime you see that, this case
this div is the parent the dt and
the dd are the children.
Now we have a relationship
between parents and children and
we can start to think about things
like flexbox or grid, right.
So let's start applying some of those.
So what I'm going to say we don't even
actually even need a class in this
particular situation for these divs.
In real life you might have a class
on those divs for obvious reasons.
But just for fun,
let's just go with it here.
So we'll have our div,
will say display flex,
we could say flex flow row wrap, right.
So now we've got them at
least on separate lines true.
If you can't see,
see if you can't style it.
So let's take a look at our
individual elements as well,
we have dt and we have dd.
Now that dd as you saw previously,
it's indented slightly.
So there is a, I forget whether its
margin or padding that's put on it,
I think it's margin.
So if I said zero,
yeah it's a margin [LAUGH] so
if we put a margin on that we can get
rid of that slight indent, right.
Maybe what I wanna do is set
a max width on this div.
Let's say like 400 pixels.
And we can put a border on that
always one pixels solid red,
so we can see where the list is, okay.
And now for our children for
our dds and our dts,
we could think about making
these the same whip.
So one way we could do that,
if you wanna talk
about funky selectors we could
say div star just like this.
All of the children have div,
then we could say flex basis is 50%.
So now they're of equal width, right?
I'm gonna give you a second
there to catch up.
So in summary, we've got a max
width set on our list to only 400.
We don't have a huge amount of stuff.
We don't want it spilling
all over the page.
Clearly, you could apply
responsive design here.
We have a border going around each of our
divs so that we can see where they are.
We set that up to display as flexbox and
in a row, so
now we have our dt and our dd,
they're next to each other.
Then I've said all of the children of
the divs which will be all the dts and
all the dds, we've just doing it in
a very efficient sort of manner here, and
we've set that to be 50% wide.
We do anything else that we
wanted here we could say for
the dt, we could say font weight,
bold, right?
That would be something we could do.
We could put a little
bit of padding on these.
Maybe we want to say padding on our divs.
Maybe we wanna do, I don't know,
one rim gives us a little
bit of space around those.
And if you wanted this
to actually look pretty,
we could say something like border bottom.
One pixel solid, maybe a nice dark grey.
Whoop poof kind of nice looking, right?
What if I did not want that border to show
up after the last item there on the list?
Anyone have any ideas?
>> Do you have not last child?
>> We're close [CROSSTALK]
there is the last child, right?
>> So you can select that and
tell it no border?
>> Exactly.
Yeah, so
we could say div colon last child.
Border none, Hey that's awesome.
So now we don't have that spare
border hanging out in space, great.
All right, so well, that was easy.
That's just single values was single
pairs here, right one to one.
Very, very easy,
we just did this with flexbox.
What happens if we add a few more items?
So we had broccoli here
in our HTML on line 12,
I'm gonna add some spinach And
some squash.
Okay, anybody tell me
what's going on here?
>> Flexbox is filling up the things
cuz they have a width of 50%,
whatever the width thing is.
And so it's jumping to the next row,
because two of the 50s have
filled up 100% of the width.
>> Yeah, exactly, so flex box,
the children here for
the dds and the dts, they're 50% wide.
So in that first row with vegetables
in broccoli, we have 50% and 50%,
that's a 100%.
So that row is full.
It takes our than our spinach and
our squash and those are 50% wide also and
it winds up forming another row, so our
layouts kind of falling apart here, right.
What would be one way that we
could fix this even though we're
still using Flexbox?
>> You can make dts take up 100% of
the width and then stay on their own line.
>> Yeah, so one thing you could do
would be to make the dts take up 100%
of the width, and then the dds
they could do something different.
That is one possible solution,
but what is marketing gonna say?
Marketing's gonna say no,
it's gonna look exactly like this, right,
marketing graphic design all those people.
Okay, so how are we gonna
fix this here with Flexbox?
If we want all the dts to
always be on the left, and
the dds are always gonna be on the right,
true.
Yeah, one thing we could
do then is instead of
saying our margin is zero on the dt or
the dd.
Let me write out four zeros here, right.
And just as a reminder, TRBL, right?
I always I don't know about the rest of
you, I always have to say this in my head.
Remember to TRBL it keeps
you out of trouble,
top right bottom left that's the order and
in for these numbers, right?
So what we want here is we actually want
no margin except on the right hand side.
So that would be the second digit
here we gonna set that to auto.
Okay, well anyway it breaks and this
is the whole point of the whole thing,
it breaks, there's only so
far you can take this with flex box.
So let's just redo this, and now what
we wanna do is if we think about this
with grid instead this is actually
gonna be a better approach overall.